the first date consists of classroom
spend about two hours in a classroom
going over planet Aleen
after that they go into which we call
the swimmer which is shallow water
initial memory mechanical release device
which basically teaches them to start
thinking on the water he using the
reference points and using handles and
leathers to eventually help them expand
over to investment
after that they go into what's called
the em sweat modulars shallow water
egress trainer basically just wrap them
into a seat flip them upside down and
they release their seat belts
jettison a window and pull themselves to
be gross and other stepping stone
towards doing the RVs bunker which
they'll go upside down and egress out of
that
second day of training starts at 8:00 we
get them in here and we start right off
the bat put them in the RBS we start the
rides as a we have one person in the
front seat we have a person in the back
seat and we rerun them through for rides
throughout the course of the day and so
it'll be one ride out the front in
during daytime conditions one one ride
in the back seat during daytime
conditions for each student
going to the Duncan up experience was
actually kind of nerve-wracking a little
bit because it's not a natural movement
because your buoyancy goes up so you
want to swim down to get out which is
completely unnatural thinking
then we switched to night night
conditions where we'll do a night ride
with a student in front and night ride
with a student in the backseat
definitely makes you have a much more
appreciation for the boat from a safety
standpoint as well as an egress
standpoint about things you need to do
and you know things you may not have
known prior to that could potentially be
you know harmful inside the boat or
dangerous or the unknown things that are
inside the boat it becomes you'd become
much more aware of what's going on
inside the boat when it's you know
you're underwater and it's dark in it
you know there's a lot of variables and
that all those variables kind of come
together here you know what the training
centers there's wonderful training I
like to tell the guys that you know now
they are the SMEs of you know underwater
egress for for an RBS so they need to
come back and you know just not keep
that training in for themselves but they
need to spread it to to the rest of the
boat crew